# Providing data-driven solutions to increase the Average Daily Revenue (ADR) of hotels and resorts and reduce Cancellations


• Utilized the CRISP-DM process to analyze hotel guests data consisting of 119,300 rows using R.

• Performed data cleaning and Exploratory Data Analysis using tidyverse. Selected the best features affecting the target variable, Average Daily Revenue.

• Created linear regression models to predict what factors affect the average daily revenue generated by a hotel.

• Created classification models using support vector machine and logistic regression algorithm to determine on what factors a booking is likely to be canceled.

• Performed association rules mining to find out what specific bookings are likely to be canceled by the customer.

• Based on the initial analysis and machine learning models, provided business recommendations to reduce cancelation rates and increase profits.

### After data mining, I came up with the following business recommendations - 

- Cater to the Business Travel visitor type among the city and resort hotels, offering free room upgrades after a certain number of stays, and ascertain local business partnerships.
- When expanding your hotels, focus on city locations given they generate more ADR.
- Especially at city hotel locations, focus on Couples, and offer them room upgrades and meal vouchers.
- Incentivize staying at hotels during the fall and summer seasons to prevent more cancellations, which could be done by recommending seasonal activities and tourist attractions.
- Have a flexible deposit strategy so that you are more likely to gain ADR from all types of customers, instead of having most visitor types have no deposit when making reservations.

